Journalism Reason-ChatGPT-Libertarian-Bias: 
more fully discussed in Section 6. However, we will mention here that our survey shows journalists think ‘Editorial Policy’ and ‘Journalism Ethics’ are more influential on their work than their personal values and beliefs.  https://reutersinstitute.politics.ox.ac.uk/sites/default/files/research/files/Journalists%2520in%2520the%2520UK.pdf
 

However, we will say that there are those who believe that influences such as ownership, commercial considerations, sourcing practices, and media management by vested interests carry much more weight than the beliefs of individual journalists (see e.g. Herman and Chomsky, 1994).

About half of journalists in the UK say they take a left-of-centre political stance, with the remaining half split between the centre and the right-wing. Although certain political beliefs (those to the right-of-centre) increase with levels of responsibility, journalists claim to adhere strongly to the professional paradigm of neutrality. They also maintain that their personal beliefs, political and otherwise, are less important than other influences on their work. While this may be so, those other influences, such as public relations activity, are not politically neutral and, as we will show later, their effects are strong and growing.
 
There are negligible differences in salary between those with at least a bachelor’s degree and those without. In fact those without a BA or equivalent are actually more likely to be earning a salary in the upper three of our five salary bands than those who have one (see Figure 2.5g). This does not, of course, mean that a degree is without value. As we show in Section 1, on journalists’ personal characteristics and diversity, a degree is now almost essential as a way into journalism. Instead, these results are more indicative of how, in the past, entry into, and progress through, the profession did not depend on formal qualifications. 
There is an inverse relationship between whether journalists have specialised (at university) in journalism and communication and the salary they earn, with those who have 
specialised earning less than their colleagues whose university studies were not related to journalism or communication. However, this difference is likely to be related to age
rather than to a specialist education in journalism being an impediment to promotion, because a higher proportion of new entrants to the profession have a degree in journalism than their older, higher-earning colleagues (see Section 5.1). 
 This pattern differs somewhat between journalists of different ranks and levels of responsibility. Our survey shows that, while the proportion of journalists with a centrist political view stays fairly steady across the ranks, there is a clear increase in right- of-centre journalists in more senior roles, and a corresponding decrease in left-of-centre journalists, particularly above the rank of junior manager (see Figure 1.5b).
  
More center-right, less c.-left increasing on rank. Lower rank and file journalists less ethical-codex-respected.

finance.yahoo .com/news/22-most-ethical-companies-us-222818012.html?guccounter=1

Journalism-note:v
2026.05.15/freedomforum .org/objectivity-in-journalism/ : "press does not cover everything that happens. Exactly what is considered newsworthy is the sum of many factors, including what kind of outlet is covering it (for example, a community newspaper versus a political news site), the audience, and the pure gut instinct of editors and newsroom leadership.",
"Exercising news judgment means journalists must consider multiple sides and give people who don’t have access to all that information a useful way to understand and interpret it.
A common saying in journalism education is, “If one person says it’s raining and another person says it’s dry, it’s not your job to simply report what both say. It’s your job to stick your head out the window and find out what’s true.”",
"Newsroom leader and entrepreneur David Cohn argues that journalism is a process, not a product. Many journalists agree.", "Standards-based journalism is essentially following a set of stated values and principles – not necessarily black and white rules, and not legal mandates – in the process of doing journalism.  Remember, under the First Amendment, the government cannot mandate who is a journalist, dictate how they do their work, or punish them because that work isn’t “objective.”  That’s where professional organizations and ethics codes come in.  Those who distrust the news media – a significant number of people in the U.S. – might think journalism ethics is an oxymoron, like jumbo shrimp.  Journalists are not required to hold a license to practice like a doctor or lawyer. Their ethics codes, often created by journalism associations, are voluntarily embraced and not legally enforceable under the First Amendment. Journalism associations and their ethics codes exist to help newsrooms and individual journalists think through the complexity involved in the process of journalism.  Notably, ethics codes from major groups don’t use the term “objectivity,” a nod to how difficult it is to measure and achieve. Rather, these ethics codes point to guiding principles for ethical decision making.  Three major codes embraced by many journalists and news outlets come from the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio Television Digital News Association, and the National Press Photographers Association, organized under similar core values.  By using these and similar standards of ethical journalism, journalists and news outlets can strive to do their jobs of informing the public in a fair, accurate, accountable and transparent way.", "Why the ‘golden era’ of objectivity in journalism is inaccurate Calls for objectivity in journalism might refer to a time when everything was done right, before it became partisan and biased. But there was no such time.  In the 1800s and early 1900s, it was common for cities to have many newspapers. While that was good for a diversity of sources, these papers were largely controlled by competing interests, including political parties and labor unions, all trying to advance their perspective and agenda. Objectivity was rarely, if ever, a goal.  Whatever time someone may think of as a “golden era” for objectivity in journalism, the idea that famous journalists were all purely “objective” is inaccurate. Walter Cronkite during Vietnam, Edward R. Murrow during the Red Scare, Joseph Pulitzer in the early 1900s: They, like all journalists before and after them, were subject to their own ways of looking at the world and having those ways influence their work.  Cronkite is known for his signature line at the end of TV broadcasts: “And that’s the way it is.” But that’s still his opinion of everything worthy of being included and presented in a certain way. He was famously called “Uncle Walter,” a straight shooter thought of as a purist for objectivity in journalism. But in 1968, he switched to openly advocating for the U.S. to leave Vietnam, saying on air it was his subjective opinion.  Murrow editorialized on air against Sen. Joseph McCarthy’s tactics investigating Americans and accusing them of being Communists. Murrow’s series of broadcasts on his CBS program “See It Now” are credited with bringing down McCarthy.  Pulitzer, for whom one of the most prestigious awards in journalism is named, engaged in a newspaper war with William Randolph Hearst. The two competing newspaper owners used “yellow journalism” – outright sensationalism and made-up stories – in the late 19th century to push a war agenda in the service of selling newspapers.  All these examples are of white men. In their eras, journalism at major outlets – like many industries – largely excluded women, people of color and those in other marginalized groups, shaping the way media narratives played out.  What eventually became the Society of Professional Journalists started in 1909 as a college fraternity of “newspapermen” aiming to professionalize journalism and provide standards. Women weren’t allowed to join until 1969.  More than 50 years later, journalists, news outlets and journalism associations are still working to make up for historical inequities in the profession – and on their own processes for ensuring fairness, accuracy, accountability and transparency for themselves.";
2026.05.15/jackkrupansky.medium .com/have-we-been-spoiled-by-the-apparent-objectivity-of-media-in-the-sixties-def2e0a1bcec : "appears that traditionally, before the golden era of objectivity in the Sixties, objectivity was not even asked of them. Sure, media outlets have always generally trafficked in what we call news, but there was always some sort of slant, bias, interpretation, cherry picking, or point of view. The media was always free to pick and choose what news they would cover and how they would cover it.
But in the Sixties, that seemed to change. Objectivity became the watchword, or at least the illusion of objectivity seemed to be the goal.",
"issues or technological or business model changes which might be the more significant culprit(s) of the transition away from strict objectivity (or the appearance thereof):
* 		The Vietnam war. Including publication of The Pentagon Papers.
* 		Apex and peaking of the civil rights movement.
* 		Assassinations of Bobby Kennedy and Dr. King.
* 		Apex and peaking of the space program.
* 		Nixon and Watergate.
* 		Reagan and Iran-Contra.
* 		Advent of CNN.
* 		Media consolidation.
* 		The Internet.
* 		Decline of the compelling power of print journalism.
* 		Bush, Iraq, WMD, and the Global War on Terror.
* 		Fox News.
* 		Social media.
* 		Declining print advertising revenue.
* 		Trump and rise of Alt-Right.
* 		Peaking of internationalism and return of nationalism, populism, and nativism.
* 		And so much more.
", "I suspect that the media (minus television and without an Internet) in the old days before World War II were probably even more biased and partisan than today.", "maybe it is only with 20/20 hindsight that we are today creating an illusion that the media of the Sixties was so much more objective when maybe there was just as much bias, but with fewer media choices we just didn’t notice.", 
"Each individual citizen is their own ultimate gatekeeper for information.",
"paragons of media objectivity of the Sixties included: The New York Times. NBC News with Huntley and Brinkley. CBS News with Walter Cronkite. Washington Post. 60 Minutes with Harry Reasoner and Mike Wallace. The Twentieth Century with Walter Cronkite. Associated Press, Reuters, and other independent news wire services. TIME magazine. LIFE magazine. Numerous other major city newspapers. Numerous monthly magazines. Wire services such as Associated Press (AP), United Press International (UPI), and Reuters. BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation). Again, those were just some examples, the paragons, the exemplars. The standards for objectivity and freedom from any obvious bias. In fact, back in those days, the local newspaper in most markets was a very trusted source of information. In fact, quite a few markets had at least two strong local papers. Trust in the media Trust in the media was quite high in the Sixties. Trust, integrity, and truth were expected of any news or media outlet. It didn’t occur to any of them to be anything different. Memories of yellow journalism People in the Sixties still had memories of yellow journalism in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. But they were memories of a time past, no longer relevant to the present. High professional standards for journalists in the Sixties Journalists of the Sixties had higher professional standards expected of them than reporters vintage 1900. Journalists of the sixties had a sense that the story itself was the focus, not their role in covering the story, while today the journalists themselves them intent on being a story themselves. Watergate was probably the watershed moment for that transition. And it has only gotten worse since then. Nowadays, journalists themselves are being celebrated as stars in their own right. In the old, glory days, TV newscasters merely read the news, while today journalists go out of their way to be a center of attention themselves. Simple facts vs. narrative and storytelling Back in the Sixties, people read the paper for simple news, the facts of the story. The classic Five W’s — Who, What, Where, When, and Why something happened. Whereas today the focus is on narrative and telling a compelling story. Today the facts are mere props; it’s the story that matters. Professional attitude and tone for journalists of the Sixties Journalists of the sixties had a very professional attitude and tone, while today so many of them have a rather lofty, arrogant, elitist tone — as if to say that they feel they’re doing the rest of us some big favor. What ever happened to truth? Does truth even matter anymore? To whom? Truth still exists, but instead of objective, politically and ideologically-neutral facts, the emphasis is on more subjective, biased, cherry-picked slant on the truth. Nuance and fairness mattered in the Sixties. Whereas today, the emphasis is on finding a nuance and angle for interpreting and expressing facts which services a preferred partisan and ideological bias. Readers, viewers, and citizens in general are more on their own than ever to ferret out what the real, objective truth really is. Or not. Maybe that was a quality of the average citizen before the Sixties, that they took more for granted and were more accepting of what they read in the papers. Or, since many larger markets had more than one newspaper, they simply picked the paper whose bias matched their own. Media as a shill for the government? The whole point of a free press in the Constitution was that the people need to be able to hear various points of view other than the government and authorities alone. The people are not served if media were to be merely a shill or mouthpiece for the government. Until the Vietnam War and Watergate, the so-golden media of the Sixties may have tried a little too hard to defer to the voice of the government. ",
"Clearly technology has advanced since the Sixties in the opinion area. The main point here is that opinion has begun to swamp and overwhelm basic news. News was king, facts were king In the Sixties, news was king. Facts were king. Facts mattered. A lot. It was the defining, main reason people sought out media. Okay, entertainment was a major factor for interest in media in general, but interest in news was much more about interest in facts than in opinions of the staff of the news outlet. Opinion is now king Whereas today, opinion is king. These days, people generally or frequently seek out and choose media outlets based on the opinion, politics, and ideology (bias) of those outlets rather than basic news and raw facts. Misleading headlines In the Sixties, headlines were fairly boring and simply expressed the gist of the story, generally without any significant hint of bias. Whereas today, headlines are frequently at least somewhat misleading if not outright misleading.",
"Commonly, the reported doesn’t get to pick their own headline for the story that they wrote. An editor will commonly choose a headline which is more in sync with the editorial bias of the media outlet. Opinion and analysis mixed in with news In the Sixties, opinion and editorial commentary was very clearly separated from raw news. Whereas today, it is more common to see opinion and analysis interspersed with news. Sure, there is commonly some minor annotation to highlight opinion and analysis, but it is usually fairly subtle so that it may not be instantly obvious at first quick glance, resulting in readers reading opinion or analysis when they were looking for unbiased news. Analysis as opinion rather than news Analysis wasn’t really a thing back in the Sixties. Generally, that was left to specialized journals. Today, analysis is all the range. The emphasis is on finding angles to categorize disparate news elements in such a way that the reader gets a very distinct impression that is rather different from the impression they would get from the raw news stories. The effect is to turn raw news into something much closer to opinion than news, but to still present it as if it were news. Is the media the enemy of the American people? I wouldn’t go so far as President Trump and suggest that the media are the enemy of the American people, but that would be more of a dispute about the magnitude of the problem rather than the direction of the problem. And the notion of enemy would be in the context of imagining that the media did indeed have some sort of exclusive gatekeeper role, which they do not. The media have a right to express their own views and even to cherry pick and present news in whatever manner they feel fits their own proprietary interests.",
"The real point here is not that the media is evil in some way because it has a bias, but the notion that the media has a role greater than the ultimate gatekeeper role of the common citizen is indeed evil, so to speak. The point is that the role of the citizen is above and more important than the role of the media. Too many in the media act as if the media had a more important role than the common citizen. Again, that’s the whole point of a democracy — the people, the common citizens, they’re in charge, at the apex of the pyramid. The real problem here is that the media of today is still colored with a bit too much of that glorified reputation for strict objectivity which they were misguidedly endowed with back in the Sixties. The media is not the friend of the American people I would go so far as to assert that the media is most certainly not the friend of the American people. The media does not have the best interests of the American people at heart. Most media outlets are for-profit enterprises, which gives them a conflict of interest. Granted, the media outlets of the Sixties had the same profit motives and inherent conflict of interest, but they at least tried to come across as having their interests aligned with the interests of all Americans. And they most certainly did come across that way. But that was then. Now is different. The media can indeed become the friend of the American people, but that would require a change in their mindset. They still see and feel that they alone are the ultimate gatekeeper for information that should be presented to common citizens. To become the friend of the people, the media needs to make clear and repeatedly reinforce that they recognize that the people are the ultimate gatekeepers of the information. The media needs to acknowledge that they can inform and influence common citizens but they need to cease and desist and abandon this arrogant elitist presumption that the media is in charge and controls the flow of information to common citizens. Media sense of entitlement These days, the media comes across as arrogant and elitist, as if they were entitled to be so and do so. The media of the Sixties did not come across with that intense sense of entitlement. Granted, they may have been just as arrogant and elitist in the Sixties, but at least they kept that aspect of their personalities to themselves or in private. It was not something to be flaunted in public. News as entertainment The media has always been involved in entertainment, but news and entertainment were quite distinct in the Sixties. News tended to be dull and boring — not entertaining in the slightest. Whereas today, or maybe since the advent of CNN and even more intensely in recent decades and recent years news or at least the presentation of news is focused very intensely on being entertaining. Sometimes even with a comedic tone, but most commonly as if the news were a soap opera or intense drama show, a theatrical production. In the Sixties the raw words were the story, but today news is focused on active video, flashy graphics, and emotion-inciting music and acoustic effects. And very strained voices. Lots of strain in voices. Focus on scandal There was plenty of scandal in the Sixties, for sure, but it was more the exception than the norm. Whereas today, scandal is more the norm than the exception. Not that there were not just as many scandals in the Sixties, but media is giving a much higher priority and profile to them these days. Hyperbolic language of today Headline and story text was so much more sedate in the Sixties, if not outright boring. Whereas today, headlines are exaggerated and story text is worded in such a hyperbolic manner as to incite readers. In fact, many editors and reporters seem intent on inciting their viewers and readers. The big downside is that this excess causes a good fraction of citizens to partially or even completely tune out the media, reducing their ability to remain informed. I guess that’s a tradeoff for each media outlet these days — how many readers and viewers they might lose versus how many they can get so much more excited. It’s just a simple math problem. 24/7 news cycle outpaces rigorous objectivity The media of the Sixties had a much slower pace for the news cycle. Generally, there was no rush to break stories without rigorous research and calm, disciplined attention to detail. Whereas today, not so much when it comes to rigor, discipline, and anything resembling a sense of calm. Today, everything is a rush. The result is that nobody has the kind of time and patience to achieve anything remotely resembling objectivity in news coverage. Competition is partly to blame, but the rush to compete aggressively is far beyond the more sedate and calm sensibility characteristic of the Sixties. Heavy dependence on anonymous sources Anonymous sources were not totally unheard of in the Sixties, but weren’t the common and dominant source. Whereas today, anonymity is the watchword, and much more common. Anonymous sources can have some value in extreme cases, but overuse is a really bad idea. Actually, use of anonymous sources is a really bad idea in even the best of situations, although in extreme cases even a bad idea may be better than nothing. The core problem with anonymous sources is that they set up the media outlet or the journalist as an extreme gatekeeper, and strip the reader, viewer, and citizen of their own essential role of being the final arbiter of the veracity and objectivity of the source. A media outlet issuing a story based in part on an anonymous source is basically saying to readers, viewers, and citizens “trust us — we know what’s best for you!” That’s a horrible thing to do in a democracy, where the people are supposed to come first and foremost. Disclosure and transparency should be the watchwords for all public discourse in a democracy, not secrecy and anonymity. Investigative journalism The term investigative journalism was not commonly used until about 1971 — judging from books indexed by Google Ngram Viewer. Whereas today, it is a common and popular pursuit. To be sure, investigative journalism did exist to a limited extent before 1971, but limited is the key word there. It wasn’t until the 1970’s that it became a more common and popular form of journalism. The problem is that investigative journalism is a double-edged sword. On the one hand it supplements traditional law enforcement and civil action, but at the same time it can undermine confidence in traditional law enforcement and civil action. The effect is to strip away the objectivity of the media. By acting as investigator, prosecutor, judge, and jury, the media cedes its own sense of objectivity in favor of taking a side in what should typically be a civil dispute adjudicated by an impartial judge and jury. Enlightenment? Media in the Sixties had a distinct sense of being modern and even enlightened. Fairness and balance were a thing. Today? Not so much. Point of view Again, news in the Sixties focused on the objective facts, the Five W’s, but today the focus tends to be on presenting a point of view. The goal is less about providing people with information, but more about telling people what to believe. Promoting a point of view is perfectly within the rights of a free citizen or business of the U.S., but so many of us got spoiled by the objective media of the Sixties, where facts reigned supreme.",
"Or, was it all an illusion? Maybe the media of the Sixties was just as partisan and biased as today, but in a more subtle manner, so that apparent objectivity was not as real as it seemed."..."That’s probably true to some extent, but at least it was a satisfying illusion whereas today even the notion of an illusion is gone.",
"Do readers and viewers share that same sense of purpose?
In the Sixties, the answer was a resounding yes.
But today, not so much.
Although in many cases the answer is still yes, but only because more people are more accepting of bias and manage to find media outlets matching their bias.",
"The questions, then and now, about the purpose of a media outlet include: Why does a given media outlet exist? Is the media outlet a strict business or organized for nonprofit public benefit? What were the founders thinking? What was the vision of the founders? What was the mission of the founders? What is the vision of the current owners? What is the mission of the current owners? Who are attracted as employees? What are their interests? How are employees trained and indoctrinated? How is the media outlet marketed? Does it have a preferred ideology? Partisan? How clearly identified? How objective is a particular media outlet? How partisan is a particular media outlet? Are they truly politically neutral?",
"The various categories of stakeholders in media include: Owners Senior executives Middle managers Editors Reporters Advertisers Readers Viewers Citizens in general Politicians Businesses Business executives Sometimes their interests align, but frequently they do not. In the Sixties, the alignment of interests was more prominent and stable. Today, the alignment is problematic at best. The big losers in this new bargain are readers, viewers, and citizens in general. Motivation of media Granted, owners of media outlets in the Sixties did seek to earn a decent profit for their troubles, as did journalists themselves, but readers, viewers, and citizens in general gained significant benefits in the bargain. Today, not so much. In fact, with competition from free media on the Internet, traditional media outlets are struggling to earn even a modest profit. The net result is that the owners of media outlets are forced to cut corners and take all manner of extreme measures just to stay in business. Readers, viewers, and citizens in general are the net losers in this new bargain. Objectivity still lives in the wire services One brilliant exception to all of the angst and illusion of objectivity has been the so-called wire services, such as Associated Press (AP), United Press International (UPI), and Reuters. Their whole reason for existence is simply to share raw news stories, which other media outlets pick and choose from to incorporate into their own news coverage. Subjectivity and bias simply doesn’t have any significant value for such a bland, boring flow of raw news. They don’t need to compete with the emotion-charged, partisan, and biased flavor of normal media outlets, precisely because those media outlets use the bland, boring news wire stories as filler to round out their own coverage. This is the one place where boring substance actually matters to your average media outlet. This is not to say that wire service stories are always absolutely 100% objective, but simply that they are generally much more reliably objective since they don’t have any real incentive to be anything other than objective. For me personally, seeing an attribution for a story of AP or Reuters is the gold standard seal for objectivity. It probably also means that the story will be dry and boring, but to me that’s an acceptable cost for objectivity. Objectivity still lives at the BBC Another glaring exception to the dearth of objectivity over the years and decades has been the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation.) Sixties or today or any year or decade between, through rain or shine, the BBC has been a relative Rock of Gibraltar for objectivity. That is not to say that they don’t have their own more muted sense of bias, but that’s the point, that any tendency towards emotion, partisanship, or bias is much, much more muted than anywhere other than the wire services. For me personally, the BBC is my main go-to source for news, especially for Europe and the rest of the world. They also provide an excellent perspective on the U.S. given that they have some distance to give them some welcome, much-needed perspective that media in the U.S. can’t even begin to compete with. Is the media of today obligated to be objective? No, I do not believe that objectivity is an obligation of the media today. Collectively, yes, but any given media outlet has no such obligation. They can try to be objective, if they want, but I believe that such attempts will ultimately be a fool’s errand.",
"ultimate burden of objectivity lies squarely on the shoulders of the people themselves. The media’s collective role is to assure that as many alternative views as possible are presented to the people. The people then have the responsibility to digest, analyze, and square all of those diverse views and decide for themselves what the objective truth really is. That is not to say that every single citizen will do a great job at that task, but simply that they are the ones who have that task. The good news for the media is that their own obligation is not to bear that burden of objectivity, but to pick and choose what news and issues to focus on and to do their best to present the best view that they can on any chosen issue. From their own perspective. The core idea is not that any given media outlet will be objective, but that collectively the sum total of all media outlets will provide enough raw and partially digested information so that they collectively present an objective view, an objective view of the alternatives for citizens to evaluate. From that collective objectivity, citizens can then sift and sort through the details to do their own best job of determining their own objective view. Granted, citizen views are still rather subjective, but there as well, it is their collective view that gives the overall country a more objective view. Yeah, I know, there is no perfection there, but a mediocre good may be the best that we can hope for in an exceedingly imperfect world. The memories and impressions of the objectivity of the media in its golden era of the Sixties may indeed be at least partially an illusion or at least partially an anomaly. That the media of today bears so little resemblance to the objectivity of the media of the Sixties should be a concern to some degree but shouldn’t be as surprising as it seems to feel like. It is indeed highly unlikely that the media will return anytime soon to the degree of apparent objectivity of the Sixties. The burden of filtering out the subjective, partisan, and biased aspects of the media today remains the burden of average citizens — where it always has been and always should be.",
"bottom line is that average citizens are the only people who are in an unconflicted position to filter all sources of information and cobble together something resembling an objective view of a path forward.",
"personally, it still feels as if the media was indeed a lot more objective in the Sixties, although my rational brain accepts that things are usually not as clear cut as they superficially seem or feel.
And finally, anybody who really does insist on objectivity can find ample solace in the stories carried by the wires services, such as AP and Reuters, as well as the fresh perspective of the BBC." (Limited study findings for BBC being what they promised, accurate, impartial and so on along objectivity-lines.);
2026.05.15/marketclimber .com/newswire-history/ : "Many thought it was the end for newswires when, in 2008, the SEC began to accept the release of material news through company websites and social media feeds. However, the SEC exception only applied to the largest and most widely followed companies.
For more than 99% of publicly listed companies, commercial newswires still represent the only reliable and approved way to distribute material information to investors.";
2026.05.15/daily.jstor .org/the-news-junkies-of-the-eighteenth-century/ : "turn of the century brought a flourishing of print media, Heyd writes. By the 1710s, artisans and shopkeepers filled coffeehouses, discussing and debating the events in political and foreign affairs that they had read about in the day’s papers.", 
"Soon, satires appeared in theaters, depicting regular citizens absurdly focused on the political sphere, to the detriment of their personal lives. In the 1711 play The Generous Husband, a woman dismisses a news-obsessed man as “a walking News-paper: his Head is the very Emblem of the dirty Houses he frequents, full of foul Pipes, News, and Coffee—Foh, methinks I smell him hither; he stinks of Tabacco like an old Gazette.” In the 1769 comedy The School for Rakes, a female character asks to have newspapers and magazines sent to her: “My mental faculties are quite at a stand—I have not had the least political information, these four days.”
Heyd focuses particularly on Arthur Murphy’s 1758 play, The Upholsterer, or What News? The play’s protagonist is an upholsterer named Quidnunc—Latin for “what news” or “what’s new.”",
"Heyd writes, effectively satirized the way newspapers allowed more people to feel like part of world affairs than they really were. But it also occurred at a time when middle-class merchants and artisans were actually becoming increasingly significant players in the political world.",
"“Suddenly, the British political public was widening, becoming much more informed (albeit with a mix of truths, half-truths, and outright lies) and more argumentative,” Heyd writes. “A breakdown of hierarchy ensued: everyone was privy to important information once controlled by a select few, while the uniqueness and value of this information was further eroded by being placed on the same level as gossip and information about the theater.”
So, on one hand, satires called out an indiscriminate, essentially passive fascination with “news” of any kind. On the other, they reflected dismay at a world where traditional social order really was coming apart, where the discussion of ideas in coffeehouses eventually contributed to new, revolutionary politics. It might not be a stretch to see both strains in critiques of social media power-users today." - "News Craze: Public Sphere and the Eighteenth-Century Theatrical Depiction of Newspaper Culture By: Uriel Heyd The Eighteenth Century, Vol. 56, No. 1 (SPRING 2015), pp. 59-84 University of Pennsylvania Press"

Journalism-note:a
