Political 18th century-note:v
2026.05.09/ 2025-03-19: YouTube: Timo Raunela: Scientific Proxies Manifesto, Episode 3, Seperation of Powers and The Fourth Angle: Fourth Angle of separation of power is anger, fear, paranoid and reason beyond boundaries that can make reason a fever dream. (That forces with Louis 16th's heavy taxation, elite's arrogance to the commoners, butchers, bourgeoise, shopkeepers to provide their basic needs in combination with financial crises in French state, the people aka demos rising up, immoral use of reason by fear, anger and hatred and that trauma by Louis 16th being the reason for the 1 year Regime of Terror, which was heavily objected, which is why it lasted only 1 year caused the French Revolution. American constitution focusing on separation of powers by 3 could prevent Regime of terror. Spanish painters describe reason's dream when sleeping as a monster. Athens rises up to democracy without woman rights only because of the white males being tired to be slaves/serfs in ancient context. Athenians were aware through tragedies and depressing theatre about democracy coming down. It paused 2 times in 200 years. Athens was slave economy. Timo Raunela thinks that Athenians were aware of that shortcoming, fearing the end despite commercial success, understood democracy as repeated, active habits to maintain, never put democracy as universal high ideal because of the tragic actors representing the representatives of Athens and sitting in the middle of the audience to point out the strive and discord as anti-democratic forces inside the audience and not the outside forces. Athens transfer from tyranny to democracy is slightly similar to French Revolution. Athens after 200 years transferred from democracy to oligarchy of few influencers to tyranny as unlawful rulers as Athenians understood. There's always has been anti-democratic institutions like gene-codes programming human's life span. Wealthy elites supported anti-democratic philosophers during Golden Age of Greece/Athens. US constitution ratified in 1787 became the most complete gold standard for power separation for others, which came from Montesquieu. French constitution in 1789.);
2026.05.09/ 2025-03-23: Scientific Policies Manifesto, Episode 4, The Communist Dream: 0 likes: 27 views: 19th century was ideological. (Some of his videos has 0 likes like 2025-03-19: Scientific Policies Manifesto, Episode 3, Separation of Powers and The Fourth Angle.),
Episode 2: Swiss psychologist and phenomenologist with his theory of early childhood trauma blooming themselves to frustration and paranoia, which in French Revolution became "toxic rationalism" as connected to Timo Raunela. When it comes to General Public, there were causes to collective paranoia such as memories 10 years before revolutionary era or so. We're talking about the time when the king, monarchic institutions, nobility and clergy class were doing well under the circumstances where the general public, the bourgeois, the butchers, shopkeepers had hard, really huge taxes because the King (or clergy and aristocrats despite Louis XV's failed, pragmatic efforts to appease population) let this country to economical blink of tecal disaster so all these privileged classes didn't pay for the King's mistakes but the commoners did. If this seems unbelievable to you, then I point to the famous claim of Marie Antonette suggesting that if the people has no bread, then they should eat cakes instead. This claim remained from the revolutionary era all the way today. There's good possibility that this claim is propaganda. The propaganda being powerful back then demonstrates how huge the difference was between the elites lived under conditions of choosing terrible economical mistakes versus how commoners lived harder with austerity hitting them. There was this unmanaged monetary crises. Huge parts of French population were facing poverty because of tax rate. The onset of collective paranoia in  the revolution and reign of Terror is laid way before the later years of King Louis the 16th. Other factor is the needs of the commoners, ordinary people were suppressed brutally. Swiss physiologist and phenomenologist said that the latest stages of life is related to early stages ere there was this brutal oppression of needs and whereas in the case of individuals there, their emotional needs as basic humans needs were suppressed. Attempt to try to replace the Catholic Church by cult of reason.
The deity of feminine and masculine versions of reason. Essence what we talk is very pragmatic idea of rational governing of society which war it became a pet and loved one of the larger parts of society. Rational and pragmatic governance like above stated was first suggested by elites, especially nobility (lesser nobility/landed gentry). 
Certain commuters during and on the making of reign of terror had no due, just process and was different from modern legislation-execution.
Final solution of enemies of revolution in reign of Terror disturbingly and skillful balance of power in USA were both reasonable and sense-making. US was more pragmatic, he said, I think. Reign of terror becomes rational and the reason behind it is toxic.;
Political 18th century-note:a
