Corruption-note:v
2025.11.15 : Nate Is Late: Vibe-strengthener: Episode is like Pibby in terms of making people happy. Only the Bully Torsten and Malika is never seen being happified., Episode where Moritz is corrupted by a virus has the pixelating effect., Episode shopping zombie has zombie-effect., Final Episode about aliens invading world made most of people except dragon baby and Cosmo closely, protagonists and antagonists till Nate in the end happy by erasing their memories., Episode where all persons except Malika again gets braved is like pibby's happiness.
Corruption-note:a

Among us mod-note:v
2025.07.27/github .com/Gurge44/EndlessHostRoles?tab=readme-ov-file#list-of-roles-excluding-custom-hide-and-seek-roles-and-vanilla-roles < 2025.07.27/gurge44.pythonanywhere .com : Vigilante can do tasks after kill. Hypocrite can win by tasks. Add-On: Busy: You have more tasks. "(Add-ons): Only impostors can get Egoist.", "(Add-ons): Impostors and Mechanics won't be Fool. Fools can't repair any sabotage.", Guardian is immortal after completing tasks., "(Add-ons): With the Lucky add-on, there is a probability for you to evade the kill", "As the Unlucky, doing tasks, killing, or venting as a chance to kill you.", "Mischievous" can sabotage., "Madmates assist the Impostors in winning the game. They are only available to Crewmates but can identify Impostors depending on the host's settings.", "Circumvent is an add-on that only impostors can get. The holder of this add-on will not be able to use vents (or only limited times per game or round).", Aide can't sabotage., "Anchor (Add-ons): You cannot be assigned any ghost roles.", Antidote "When someone tries to use the kill button on you, their cooldown will be decreased by a configurable amount of time", "(Add-ons): With the Onbound add-on, you cannot be guessed in meetings", "(Add-ons): When a player with Double Shot guesses a role incorrectly, they will get a second chance to guess, but the next wrong guess will result in suicide."
"Cleansed Add-on can only be obtained if cleanser erases all your Add-ons. Depending on the cleanser settings, you may not be able to obtain any more Add-ons in the future.", "Mare, you have a low kill cooldown but can only kill during lights." "Additionally, your name will appear in red during lights. Only assigned to Impostors and cannot be guessed.", Nimble: Grants Vent Access for Crewmate Roles., (Add-ons): Detective and Cleaners won't be Oblivious. Oblivious cannot report dead bodies. Note: Bait killed by Oblivious will still be reported automatically, and Oblivious can still be used as a scapegoat for Anonymous., "(Add-ons): You sleep during lights out. You can't see anything, and you cannot move. You can only wake up when the lights are back on. If someone with the Glow add-on comes near you, you fully wake up and lose this add-on.", Taskcounter: sees tasks and roles., "Complete all tasks to become Workhorse and get extra tasks set by the host.", "Dynamo, you get faster by walking. The longer you walk, the faster you get. Stopping will reset your speed.", "Diseased  (Add-ons): When someone tries to use the kill button on you, their cooldown will be increased by a configurable amount of time", "(Impostor/Neutral Ghost): Minion, you can protect someone (optimally a crewmate) to blind them for a few seconds.", "(Crewmates): Sheriff has no tasks and can kill the Impostor (maybe also neutrals). If the Sheriff tries to kill a crewmate, they will suicide. They may be able to kill anyone as a madmate.", Add-On: "As the Swift, your kills will not cause you to lunge", "Rookie
(Add-ons): You can't kill on the first round.", "(Neutrals): As the Glitch, your goal is to kill everyone on the ship. You can hack players to prevent them from killing, venting, sabotaging, and reporting dead bodies for a limited time. You can also call sabotage or pet to disguise as a random player for a limited time (the sabotage won't occur).", "Reach
(Add-on) Only roles with a kill button can get this add-on. You have the longest kill range possible in the game, unlike everyone else", "(Neutral): As the Postman, your job is to deliver mail to everyone. You'll always have a target", Rascal can die to sheriff, "Phantasm  (Neutral Ghost): As the Phantasm, you must finish all of your tasks to win! Depending on a setting, you may also end the game and win alone if you do so!", Add-On: "As the Messenger, after you die, you can send a message in a meeting to the alive players by typing /hm {number}, replacing {number} with the corresponding index of the messages listed below:", "As a Coroner, you can't report corpses; instead, after trying to report the corpse, you will see an arrow leading you to the killer.", "Role: Contagious  (Betrayal Add-ons): When the Virus infects you, you become contagious. Contagious players are on the Virus team.  Whether or not you die after a meeting depends on the settings for the Virus.", Ankylosaurus is immune from guesses and slower., 2025.07.28: From YouTube: Both imposter and crewmates and neutral can get disregarded. tohe.weareten .ca: "With the Disregarded add-on, your corpse cannot be reported.", tohe.weareten .ca/options/Neutrals/Killing/Bandit.html : Bandit: "Note: Cleansed, Last Impostor and Lovers can not be stolen.", Schroedinger's cat has 0 votes and has to switch to win with attempting to kill., (2025.07.27/gurge44: "Role: SchrodingersCat  (Neutrals): As Schrödinger's Cat, if you get attacked, you turn into the same role as your killer. If you don't get attacked, you lose, or you can win with crewmates, depending on the settings."), ("(Add-ons): Neutrals and Madmates can't become Schizophrenic. The Schizophrenic will be considered as two players in the game. Having at least one player as Schizophrenic won't end the game if there are only them and the Impostor left."), "(Neutrals): As the Dealer, use your kill button to give players random add-ons. If you give a certain amount of add-ons, your win condition satisfy, and you'll win with the winning team at the end.", "(Impostors): Zombie has a short kill cooldown but moves very slowly and has very little vision. Zombie will not be voted out by anyone other than the Dictator, and the movement speed of Zombie will gradually slow down as they make kills or time passes.", "(Crewmates):Paranoid can call a meeting by venting/petting. The report animation will show a dead body with Paranoid's color, but the Paranoid is not dead.", "(Impostors):As the Cantankerous, you can only kill if you have a point. You gain points if a non-impostor player gets ejected.", "(Impostors): As the Inhibitor, you can only kill when there is not a critical sabotage active (e.g., Lights or Reactor).", "(Impostors): As the Saboteur, you can only kill when there is a critical sabotage active (e.g., Comms or O2). Whenever you kill, another random critical sabotage will be activated on top of the ongoing one.", "(Impostors): As the Sapper, you can not kill with your kill button. Instead, you can pet/vanish to plant time bombs which explode after a specified delay (set by host), killing everyone nearby.",  "(Impostors): Trickster, you function as a regular Impostor but with one key difference. You appear crewmate to crewmate roles.", "(Impostors): As the Occultist, you have 2 modes: reporting and reviving. In report mode, you report bodies normally. In revive mode, when you press report on someone's body, you'll revive them and they'll turn into Renegade / get the Madmate add-on (if they weren't an impostor).", "(Crewmates): As the Retributionist, you may mark a player using your kill button to camp them. If they die, you will be notified. In the meeting after that, you may use /retribute {id} to kill the player who killed your target. If you guess wrong, nothing happens. After the meeting, you may camp another player.", "Role: Succubus  (Neutrals): If there are more Cultists than Crewmates and only these two teams remain, the Cultist team wins. The Cultist can charm a non-neutral player by pressing the kill button, making them a part of the Cultist team with new victory conditions.",; 2025.07.29/gurge44.phytonanywhere .com: "(Crewmates): To check if two players are on the same team, use the command /cp [player id 1] [player id 2]. Neutral killers are counted as part of the same team. Non-Killing Neutrals are counted as separate teams. The Trickster is counted as crew, and Madmates are counted as Impostor. The Lawyer/Follower and its target count as the same team. You will receive an affirmation message if they are in the same team or a denial message if they are not."; 2025.07.26/raw.githubusercontent .com/Gurge44/EndlessHostRoles/main/CustomRoles.cs; 2025.08.01/youtube .com/watch?v=w7geijuV1IU : Earlier: "Voting Mode:" at meeting is on. 24:59 can set that misguessing doesn't lead to death.; 2025.08.02/youtube .com/watch?v=-3CS_7YFxdw&pp=ygUoRW5kbGVzcyBIb3N0IE1vZCBBTU9ORyBVUyAiTmljZSBHdWVzc2VyIg%3D%3D : NiceGuesser is a role. 0:18 Guess evil *red written* roles in meetings to kill. 0:21 Also in task description. 2:48 NiceGuesser killed Amnesiac (neutral with kill-button). 2:54 NiceGuesser can choose between Imposter, Neutral and Coven. 08:59 Coven-section has no roles. 11:22 Mileena: bro why did u guessed me ; 2025.08.09/old.reddit .com/r/AmongUs/comments/wzq9vg/can_anyone_tell_me_how_to_find_town_of_host/ : " [–]AnnieNimes 6 points 2 years ago  Only the host needs to install the mod, which makes it suitable for public lobbies. Everybody else can join with the vanilla version. If the host leaves and the next host doesn't have the mod, the lobby becomes normal again.";
On roughly 2026.03.25-2026.04.04, I wrote ApeV -AmongUsRevamped about disabling vents which he asked why as the only open-letting issue with a roblox player joking that this serious issue needs to fix before I answer, 0 tasks, float above 0-900s to -1-3610s, later lastly fixing or rewriting SnS-Chat to "(experimential) works only in 1st round.". ApeV deleted my issues as Fengsemul, banned me for even putting a star. Idk if me giving star to Epic-MC or so was the catalyst for ApeV banning me from posting new issues. Anyways, 6 months later, I hope, he forgets or ignores that I asked him about disabling vents, then report a bug on an alt that when I vent during unfinished "Clean Vent"-task and another player cleans vent, then I stuck and in general like vanilla-Among-Us, engineer shouldn't vent before he finishes cleaning vent at this vent and how he vents look weird with moving up slightly so can you fix this, I say like that, then ApeV gets maybe the idea of disabling vent as function, which I can copy, but it's complicated to me & idk if I can do this.;
Among us mod-note:a

Among us function-note:v
2026.05.05: When I leave Among Us shortly or during meeting being started that screen and then go back, then I can use my role-ability during meetings except when I open chat and or chatting. When it shows a short blackscreen, then it works. Works as normal player.
Among us function-note:a

Among us-note:v
2026.05.31/researchgate .net/profile/Anne-Sullivan/publication/355567229_Orange_is_Sus_Among_Us_and_Political_Play/links/617c2957eef53e51e102c8e1/Orange-is-Sus-Among-Us-and-Political-Play .pdf : p.1: "Released in 2018 by developer InnerSloth, Among Us [25] is a retro- style multiplayer game with simple mechanics that initially made little impact in gaming communities. Emphasizing the ability to play over either local Wi-Fi or online, Among Us offers a form of cooperative play centered on crewmates in space. Four to ten players work toward the goals of the team, a proportionate subset of whom are impostors working to sabotage the ship and murder the legitimate crewmates. With a major studio behind it, the accessible gameplay might have attracted more attention, but Among Us was a true indie game with only three developers and no real promotion", "While Steam is an imperfect measure of the popularity of Among Us, as the game was also available on other platforms, its internal data [7] is useful as a high-level view of the trend: the game had very little play prior to a surge of streaming in July 2020, peaking immediately prior to the US election that November (see Figure 1). While these figures track global viewers, the chronological correla- tion to significant US events suggests both an increase in American viewers and, perhaps, of external spectators looking for insights into the disputed election.",
p.2: "Among Us is best known for its characterization as a “traitor” game, relying on the subversion of traditional cooperative play. In traitor games, players all seemingly work towards the same goal, but one or more players is secretly working against the rest. Finding out who is the traitor is often part of traitor games, and in Among Us, the players have to work together to deduce which players are the impostors.", "Linderoth categorizes these as one-sided team games, “tragedy of the commons” games, and games employing traitor mechanics [35]. The “hidden traitor” me- chanic inherently undermines cooperation, reshaping the group to favor paranoia in the face of potential sabotage [55]. By contrast, most online multiplayer play relies upon two-team dynamics, often",
p.3: "While this overtly political game was never taken up broadly the way Among Us has been, in part due to limited play capacity and a lack of visual engagement elements, it demonstrates the usefulness of traitor mechanics for political representation.
Among Us and similar social deduction games rely upon a mech- anism of player elimination, which Rogerson, Gibbs, Carter, and Allison describe as a form of “permadeath” that transforms the player into a frustrated witness [53].",
"These games share a common play with morality, embodying in their mechanics what Sparrow, Gibbs, and Arnold describe as “ludomorality,” drawing on four elements: “game boundaries, consequences for play, player sensibilities, and virtuality” [57]. Such games can create real-world social conflict and are popular at parties in part for their opportunities for outrage and glee at successful deceit.",
"Among Us are important to its 2020 spike in popularity. In a moment of widespread uncertainty, the game gestures toward “retrogaming as nostalgia,” [21] bringing the impression of famil- iarity and simpler times.",
p.8: "Imposter" is in March 14, 2021, USA still more searched in Google than April 12,2020, USA.;
Found by Google Scholar: 2026.05.31/ : DoomScroll;
2026.05.31/scholar .google .com/scholar?start=10&q=among+us+innersloth+mod&hl=de&as_sdt=0,5 > 2026.05.31/osf .io/download/56rvh > 2026.05.31/activeplayer .io/among-us/ ;
2026.05.31/digitalcommons.law .scu .edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1676&context=chtlj : 
p.28:
"recently popular mafia type game, Among Us. This game has picked up much traction due to popular Twitch and YouTube streamers playing this game and genuinely having fun. During the COVID-19 quarantine period, this game has allowed friends to have a way to bond together. Developer Innersloth is a small indie company of thirteen individuals –six programmers, three artist/designers, one animator, one community director, one player support member, and one producer", "small company that has recently gained global fame and a strong player base, understandably, they likely do not have the resources to pursue litigation with companies in China.",
"Chinese clone is called Werewolf Among Us",
p.37:"a more interactive version of Mafia, and the conditions of quarantine that COVID-19 has thrust upon our daily lives has allowed this game to thrive and become popular"170
170: "169 Shawn Farner, The Real Reason Among Us Got So Popular So Fast, LOOPER (Nov. 6, 2020), looper .com/274102/the-real-reason- among-us-got-so-popular-so-fast/.";
"among us innersloth detect imposters" or so: 2026.05.31/oasis.library .unlv .edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=6330&context=thesesdissertations : Rhetoric and why they like crewmates/imposter-roles. p.29: 1st session: 0 wanted crewmate, 2nd session: 2 wanted crewmate.,
p.30: To the inexperienced, it may seem that imposters carry less of the burden throughout Among Us. Typically, carry the blunt of the actual work during gameplay... take and being detective, which players like.
Crewmates are shocked when ejected wrong one meanwhile imposters have Pokerface. (Neutral. Sometimes artificial shock according to later pages.),
p.34: Circular discussions are bad and mediating guides, initiatives and leaderships saves the crewmates from decision paralysis and losing the game somehow.


Among us-note:a

Among us detecting imposter-note:v
2026.05.31/ Imposters barely vote in middle, even none., Red and maroon imposters vote consistently the same, like red being 2x to always the first to vote.,
2026.06.01/ Middle-Voting-scheme is shown wrong by gray in German Among Us.
Among us detecting imposter-note:a

Among us origin-note:v
2026.02.28/newpulptales .com/the-pulpy-prehistory-of-the-thing-ii-who-goes-there/ : "long journey home, Odysseus was forced to pass between the fearsome monster, Scylla, and the vast, ship-swallowing whirlpool, Charybdis. A similar danger confronts anyone tasked with describing the origins of John W. Campbell’s classic novella, Who Goes There?
On the one hand, the connections between this story and H.P. Lovecraft’s At the Mountains of Madness seem telling. The Lovecraft novella was published in Astounding Stories in 1936. In 1937, Campbell was put in charge of the magazine, which he renamed Astounding Science-Fiction in March of 1938. In August of that year, he began publishing his own Antarctic horror serial under a pseudonym. Both his and Lovecraft’s featured scientists exploring the frozen continent, a subsection of the expedition uncovering the remains of buried alien life, and the subsequent death by monster of most of those involved. The monsters themselves have uncanny similarities.
On the other hand, while Campbell had almost certainly read At the Mountains of Madness, he nowhere mentioned it as an inspiration. His own story is far from a mere ripoff–it is a chilling tale of a kind very different from Lovecraft’s. There is no lost civilization, and the human protagonists do not wander about the icy wilderness or explore ancient ruins. They are trapped inside the base with a creature they cannot comprehend, struggling less to understand than to survive. It is a far more claustrophobic, creature-centered narrative, and it is no wonder Hollywood found it easier to adapt than Lovecraft’s sprawling, almost ethnographic survey of Elder Thing civilization.", "two come closest is perhaps the creature at the center of Who Goes There? When found, it has “three red eyes” and “blue hair like crawling worms.”";
2026.02.28/baen .com/Chapters/9781476781662/9781476781662___2.htm : "John W. Campbell, Jr.. was the man who built modern science fiction is, if anything, an understatement, and in the space I have here", "Astounding Stories in 1937, he became editor in 1938, soon renaming the magazine Astounding Science-Fiction and would have re-renamed it just Science Fiction, except that another editor beat him to that title.";
2026.02.28/en.wikipedia .org/wiki/Mafia_(party_game) : "He credits this game-based methodology to pioneering 1920s psychologist Lev Vygotsky and the Turing test."
Among us origin-note:a

Among us xp-note: 2026.03.04/steamcommunity .com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=3291157867 : Badges adds more XP.;
2026.03.02?: XP First Play Bonus.

Replacement of AI-note:v
2025.10.25/youtube .com/watch?v=538dcuOPPGQ : projection 2024: AI-solution makes sales, sellers, home office and company cars redundant. The only hope I have in business ("Vertrieb") is to occupy a niche from very specialized experts that are needed and asked. Other jobs will be gone in 3-5 years.
Replacement of AI-note:a

Misinformation-note:v
2025.10.25/theretrotube.substack .com/p/the-great-quiz-show-betrayal : Late 1950s quiz shows were staged like reality TV shows and social media influencers for profit. Entertaining performance and truth is blurred.
Misinformation-note:a

TV-note:v
2025.07.26/thestreet .com/investing/does-anyone-still-watch-broadcast-tv : "But the networks are increasingly accepting that viewers will tune in live for the sort of things that aren’t as fun to watch later, and then seek out scripted content on their own time. So don't expect there to be less to watch out there (far from it) but don't be surprised to see broadcast television invest even more in live events.", "live viewership for broadcasting television has been on a downward trend this century.", "Back then, the main headaches for networks were the increasing popularity of both basic and premium cable and the popularity of live recording devices like TiVo, iTunes introducing the ability to download episodes of television, as well pirate torrenting websites, all of which eventually made the concept of having to watch a television show live seem outdated";
2025.09.19/ 2025-08-31: spiked: "Why the 'sensible centrists' are wrong about everything": 2:24 In a way, nothing is popular, because it can't be. When I first started working in TV in the you know 1990s, we had a panic in Grenada of coronation street dropped below 18 million viewers. That was considered like right this is this dangerous now.
2:50 Now it's like if it gets one or two and is still considered as one of the most popular shows on TV.
3:08 That audience is tiny compared to a popular audience of olden times. (Popular algorithms instead.) or even a popular audience now a big western show or something that runs you know one of those really big hitters or a big pop star like Taylor Swift or Red June.
They're popular and there is a certain kind of very engaged group of people.
TV-note:a

Most mainstream media-note:
KRI56 News Corpus Christi as KRIS 6 as KRIS-TV.

1, 2 oder 3 alle liegen falsch-Note:v
2025.10.25/youtube .com/watch?v=cYKtWnfT0Vo&pp=ygUKMSAyIG9kZXIgMw%3D%3D : 1,2 oder 3 1984 : 23:00 : No one had "Karikatur"., 27:03 1 Boy was on correct answer "Kabel".;
2025.10.25/zdf .de/play/shows/1-2-oder-3-120/magische-moore-102 : 2025-10-19: 09:20 Warum sind Fleisch im Moore besser haltbar als im Kühlschrank? 09:33 Sauer.
19:24 Welche Fallenmechanismus nutzt der Wasserschlauch? 9:58 einzusaugen 
22:10 Was haben die Moorleichen gemeinsam? 22:53 Haarfarben-Änderung.
1, 2 oder 3 alle liegen falsch-Note:a

Wer wird Millionär-Mehrheit falsch:v
2026.03.23: Sendung vom 23.03.2026: Ungefähr 2/3 Leute laut Günther Jauch wählten akurat, doch ungefähr 1/3 wälzen "akkurat". Der Mann, der vorher mit dem 2 order mehr Kanditaten verglichen und reflektierte, wählte akkurat und gewann. Während der Frage schimpfte Jauch: "S*****e." Günther Jauch meinte, dass gegen den Joker zu wählen mutiger ist, als keinen zu wählen. Und dass er mit eine absurde Avocado-Schnitt-Begründung, was ich auch glaubte entgegengesetzt zu Günther Jauch's UV-Gedächtnis-These, "Die Haut vergisst nichts." oder so richtig wählte.
22:58 Mann fragte den schnellsten Erstaufsteher, wo die meisten deutschen Auswanderer sind, und trotz 50/50-Joker fälschlicherweise wählte der Mann den Joker-vorgeschlagenen Spanien anstatt den richtigen Schweiz. Mann fragte über einen Loser-Special. Günther Hauch fragte den wie er nannte, den "Allwissenden Ministerin" als verpassten, potenzielle Joker, sie wählte Spanien. Die neue rothaarige Fragenantworterin hätte auch Spanien gewählt. Günther Jauch erklärte den Spanien-Wahl dadurch, dass man am Strand und Sonne denkt.
Wer wird Millionär-Mehrheit falsch:a

Page-App 12:59: Good morning.
13:00 Good afternoon.

First at night lower arm: 115
Left upper arm: 110
67 DIA

Found by bad search engine:v
2025.12.05/web.archive .org/web/20220405054619/http://www.pentranslator.com/ : "Autism can be defined as an abnormal absorption with the self, which is marked by communication disorders and short attention span and inability to treat others as people.";
2025.12.05/activesearchresults .com : "Dates des jours fris ftes civiles et religieuses en France. ... jours fries Ftes civiles Ftes Catholiques Ftes Juives Ftes Mulsulmanes Calendrier Interactif Accueil Dates des jours fris Dates des jours Fris en ...  https://www.calendrier-jours-feries.com"
Found by bad search engine:a
